**Design Doc**

**Design Choice \#1:** Removed the BreakThrough Concept  
**Reason:** The main purpose of this app is to be a daily tracker for manageable levels of pain that still affect day-to-day functioning for chronic pain patients. On the other hand, breakthrough pains are intense, severe episodes of pain, often caused by a sudden ineffectiveness of medication or other such medical cause. After more research, I came to the conclusion that it felt detrimental to allow patients to also track their breakthrough pains on this app, as it could create a more passive approach to dealing with these episodes. Patients should attempt to seek out urgent care when dealing with these episodes and creating a tracking functionality for this might cause them to postpone seeking medical attention for emergent cases. 

**Design Choice \#2:** Did Not Include LLM Feature in MapSummaryGeneration  
**Reason:** Although the MapSummaryGeneration feature was a more robust feature with the LLM addition, my testing code had laid down ground rules that it often failed to meet. For example, any LLM-generated messages with content resembling a medical diagnosis, ideas for home remedies or medication suggestions were automatically rejected. If the LLM failed to generate an adequate response a second time, the user would receive the ‘fallback’ message which just contained a basic summary. Unfortunately, the LLM failed these metrics so often despite heavy context engineering to prevent it from adding potentially harmful material that also violated the role of the app as a tracker, rather than a substitute for real medical attention. Since the fallback message was frequently resorted to, it just made more sense to let that be the summary generated, rather than constantly prompting an LLM for unhelpful and potentially harmful results.

**Design Choice \#3:** PDF Export Feature Addition  
**Reason:** This was not included in the original concept design for MapSummaryGeneration, but later included based on feedback for Assignment 2\. It made sense to include this since the general user population of the app is likely to be advanced in age and not as comfortable with using technology. An action like taking a screenshot might feel unintuitive to them and prevent them from being able to share the summary with their healthcare provider. Instead, there is now a clearly designated button that allows them to generate and save a PDF of the summary generated.

**Design Choice \#4:** Retaining Scoring Colours that Conflict with the Colour Palette  
**Reason:** Although the visual design study and UI of the app contain colours in the spectrum of blues and purples, I intentionally wanted the scoring scale and region scores to be a range of green, yellow, and red. I believe that this is an important part of medical triaging and tracking the severity of pain is a fundamental feature of this app. We are conditioned to respond to these colours in a certain way by design all around us (e.g. traffic lights) and I wanted to take advantage of this. It is an intuitive way for users to recognise how to rate their pain on an intensity scale, which is why I retained it despite its clash with the rest of the colour scheme.

